hw\_06
================
Haley Dylewski
9/30/2020

This document discusses two plots from the same scientific article and
examines why one is effective and the other ineffective.

-----

``` 
  Effective Plot Example
  
```

-----

This plot represents an effective example.

Description: This plot comes from a paper analyzing and comparing two
genomic regions of different sarbecoviruses, in the context of
SARS-CoV-2 lineage. At the top, the geographic regions the different
viral samples originated in are shown, color, color coded, on a map.
Below the samples are mapped on two phylogenetic trees, one for each
genomic region, and are color coded according to the geographic region.
The dotted lines indicate samples that fall at different phylogenetic
positions in the two trees.

![Alt
text](/Users/hdyle/Documents/Micr_590/reproducible_data_analysis/plots/20_Boni_good_plot.png)
From Boni et al. Nat Microbiol. 2020 Jul 28. “Evolutionary origins of
the SARS-CoV-2 sarbecovirus lineage responsible for the COVID-19
pandemic”

Goal: Shows that viruses from different geographic regions group into
similar phylogenetic clades. Some samples fall at different phylolgentic
positions between the two trees, indicating potential recombination
events. Assessment: I think this plot is successful in its
communication. I think through the combination of colors and mapping,
the point is gathered very quickly. Each part of the plot serves a
purpose, with no extra fluff. The colors are clean and distinct.

I’m sure there is room for improvement but I have no immediate
suggestions.

\#\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

``` 
      Ineffective Plot Example
```

\#\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Description: This figure shows the general gene structure of the
sarbecovirus spike protein gene, S. The genome sequences of 6
sarbecoviruses were compared based on nucleotide sequence similarity and
mapped phyolgenetically for each S gene region. The variable loop region
within the C-terminal domain of this gene was emphasized. The dotted
lines in the phylogenetic trees connect broken branches so that
differences in the tree for each reagion can be shown by one continuos
tree. Then the genetic distance (aka average substitutions per site)
between SARS-CoV-2 and 3 of the sarbecoviruses was determined and
graphed for each of th segments of the S gene.

![Alt
text](/Users/hdyle/Documents/Micr_590/reproducible_data_analysis/plots/20_Boni_bad_plot.png)

Goal: To understand which virus each SARS-CoV-2’s S-gene likely came
from. This plot is trying to communicate, that within the S protein
(that exists in various sarbecoviruses), the variable loop region of
SARS-CoV-2 (responsible for host cell receptor binding) is most closely
related phylogenetically to the pangolin Guangdon 2019 virus, and that
the genetic distance is low for this region.

Assessment: I find this plot unsuccessful in clear information
presentation. The flow is unclear, what order I should be looking at
things. My biggest critique concerns the phylogenetic trees int he
center of the figure with dotted lines. The trees are not easily
visualized. Further, the dotted lines are too pale to see easily and the
shaded triangle over these lines obscures the colors further. It is also
hard to directly compare the values across genetic distance graphs. As
its stands, it is very difficult to visually determine the y-values
beyond the NTD graph.

Suggestions: Break this figure up. Show the phylogentic trees stacked on
below the other so they can still line up with their genetic segment,
but are not overlapping. The genetic distance graphs either each need a
y axis or there should be guidelines spanning them so that the genetic
distance can be precisely judged. At the top, where the shaded regions
correspond to the three domains, the two pink shades are very close. I
would change one of the colors.
